Alright, let's keep going. We're going to wrap up our conversation around consideration.
So when we are thinking about the idea of consideration, we are, it's a bit on a continuum.
Not really on a continuum, but it's related to these other things, and so we've been talking
about different facets of our life. Time, money, emotional bandwidth, focus, attention,
affection, comfort, different aspects of our life, different facets of our life.
Then we're asking the question, who gets the best of me? Who has gotten the best of me?
Throughout my life, throughout our marriage, who have I given the best of two? The best of me, too.
So then we're wrestling with the question like, who should get it? What are my priorities?
What we need to be moving towards is prioritizing our wives as the person that gets the best of me.
And so this is, this should be challenging. We should have to think about this. It's not just a,
you know, if I'm thinking about my time, it's like, well, if she should get the best of me,
then I should quit my job and just focus on giving all of my time to her. That's obviously silly,
and probably not what she would want anyway. And so that leads us to the question of consideration.
When I'm thinking about giving the best of me to her, if that's where my heart's at,
that's where my priorities are, is I want to give her the best of me. I also have to take the next
step of going, am I considering the impact of how giving the best of me is going to affect her?
Am I considering how it's going to impact her? If, so take something like affection.
If I have not been affectionate with her over the course of our marriage, and then I'm kind of
got this energy about giving her the best of me, I'm going to give her the best of my affection.
But we're not in a place and she's not in a place to receive my affection.
I need to consider how that's going to impact her. That might actually be unsettling to her.
That might generate skepticism. It might generate fear. If all of a sudden I start
offering to rub her back and rub her feet and putting my hands on her and giving her physical
affection, if that's not, if I'm not considering how that might impact her or how she might receive
that, then I might be setting us up for setting her up for a lot more pain.
So yes, we want to be giving the best of ourselves in different, all these different facets and
areas of our lives. This is not a comprehensive list, by the way, etc.
We want to be giving the best of us, but we can't do that with this cavalier,
gung-ho sort of attitude. We have to think through these things and what we need to be doing
is we have to be thinking through how is this going to affect her. All right, so I'm going to
come back to that. We are also holding that in tension with the whole of our story.
So integration is taking the whole of our story and making sure that we are connected to that.
And that we are making efforts to make those connections for her and for us so they don't
sneak up on us. We miss so many opportunities for healing when we say we're going to leave
the past back there and we're just going to move forward and run away. We don't use that
language. We use a move forward, run ahead, get past this, move on. These are all kind of
words, phrases, concepts that we think about when we go and we'll even kind of misunderstand what
Paul means when he says, you know, leave the past behind us and strive towards what's ahead.
In fact, if you read Paul's epistles, he's constantly referring back to his old life. He's
constantly referring back to his sinfulness. He's constantly referring back to being the worst of
sinners. So, you know, we take him out of context when we say, well, Paul says we need to just
leave the past behind us and strive towards what's ahead. We're misunderstanding his meaning there.
Because in order for us to be loving people, in order for us to be full of grace, in order for us
to be full of humility, we can't turn a blind eye to what happened back there and just go like,
I'm a new man and I'm moving forward and I don't want to talk about all that stuff anymore.
We have to be integrating the whole of the story with what's happening today.
In fact, the more we are harkening back to that, calling attention to how the whole of our story
is impacting what's going on today, the more healing we're creating.
All right, so this idea of consideration, it's all about thinking about the impact.
Thinking about the impact that my thoughts, my actions, my feelings, my experiences are going
to have on her. If I'm not doing that, then I'm missing a lot of opportunities to
to have deeper healing conversations. I'm also potentially even causing more pain.
All right, so you know, the tool that we talked about using with regards to
understanding the impact is the quadrant tool.
Mind, heart, body, and soul. When we go, okay, I want to give her the best of my affection.
How might that affect her mentally? How might that impact her emotionally? What might that do
to her body? What does that do to her spiritually? If we are considering those four aspects or those
four parts of her, then we're kind of covering the whole of her. And so it's all the labor of the
point there, but that's the tool that we're using to get in touch with the impact.
So practically speaking, if you're going to engage your wife, which I hope, you know, obviously you are, you're going to engage your wife at some point in the near future, in whatever you're doing, take a moment, pause for a minute, and jot down some notes. Okay, I'm getting ready to walk through the door, and I want to give her the best of my emotional bandwidth.
I've saved up some energy today so that we have, so I've got what I need in order to engage with her in a way that's, you know, energetic and meaningful. How is that going to affect her mentally, emotionally, physically, spiritually?
All right, that's not, it's on magic formula. This is not a magic tool that doesn't mean that conversation is going to go great. And y'all are going to have, you know, the best connection you ever had.
It's to say we are preparing ourselves to engage with our wives. We're actually being intentional in a new sort of way. Most of our, most of our lives in terms of like when we've been acting out, we are, we are very unintentional about the way that we're engaging.
So we're trying to kind of create a new culture in our relationship, in our relational dynamic where I'm not coming in cavalier. I'm not coming in with my head in the clouds.
I'm coming in, having done some work to go, okay, this is how I want to show up in this moment.
This is the best of me that I want to offer her and give her.
I also want to be connected to how that might impact her.
Because that might, that might change the way I engage.
All right.
I'll, I'll ask some folks to chime in as you have been, hopefully, you know, recognize some names in the room as you've been following this conversation over the last couple of weeks.
The idea of consideration.
How has this impacted you in the way that you've engaged your wife, give us.
Give us some insight.
The concept of best of me has been challenging me in good ways.
I have been considering how to give her the best of me as a transition from work to home.
It has not been perfect.
The other night I was coming home with a headache and I was trying to figure out how to give her the best of me when I can barely function.
Good.
Good.
I love, I love the like that that's such a specific thing, but something that everybody can relate to is how do I get the best to think when I've got a headache.
Headache colors everything.
And the fact that you are thinking about that is a really good sign.
Doesn't mean that you have to pretend like you don't have a headache.
It means that you have to be aware that your headache is going to impact her in some way.
It's going to, it's going to color the way you show up and that is going to affect her mind, heart, body, and soul.
So you can get ahead of that by having that kind of conversation where you go, Hey, I really want to show up well.
But I've got a headache.
And so, you know, however that conversation looks, but I'm, I'm.
That's such a relatable, relatable thing. So thanks for sharing that.
Who else? How have you been, how have you been wrestling with this, with this concept?
I am very bad in consideration and careless with it. Thomas, give me a rock to carry around with me as a reminder to be considering my wife as I have struggled with this concept.
I'm hoping this tangible thing will really help me gain traction.
I think that's very practical.
I don't want to, I don't want to disrupt what Thomas is doing, but this is my, my little kind of take on that.
Is, um, so this right here.
For those of you who are not watching, just listening, pointing to my ring, my wedding ring.
This right here is supposed to represent that.
Right. And there is grief.
Around that.
Because the reality is, I was wearing this while I was acting out.
For a lot of us, we, we were wearing this while we were acting out or we should have been wearing this.
Um, but this, this ring represents.
Uh, Blake, that, that thing that you just talked about. Like, what's the object that reminds me of her and who I'm like living for and who I'm connected to.
Should be our wedding ring.
It gets, we're so accustomed to wearing it that we don't even realize it's there, but it shouldn't.
That should be the thing.
So here's what I do.
Or here's what I've done and I've encouraged other people do.
Um, I want to make it a little.
Almost awkward or, or cumbersome for myself so that I can't.
I can't forget.
So I'll take my ring finger and my pinky finger together on my non dominant hand.
Right. So my two fingers on my non dominant hand.
I'll tape them together.
So that is.
Awkward enough for me to notice it all the time.
It's like I can't not notice it, but it's not so cumbersome that I can't do my work. I can still type. It's a little bit, you know, can't get over to the S, but.
Um, but that's something that it's almost like a little, a little trick.
But the point there is to have a constant, constant reminder of like, am I considering her and everything that I'm thinking, feeling, saying, doing, experiencing.
Um, so object, yes, if you're like me, you'll lose the object.
It'll go through the wash.
If I take my fingers together.
Um, that makes it very easy to remember.
Consideration has been helping me with defensiveness, especially while we are separated.
It keeps me in the right mindset when I have sent her a letter or a text.
Yeah, I mean, we could flip, we could flip some of this on its head and say the worst of me.
Am I considering what happens in her mind, heart, body, and soul I give her the worst of me.
And you're talking about defensiveness. So, so if you do an exercise where you go.
My defensiveness is the worst of me.
I want to get connected to what happens in her.
In her mind and her bar, her body, her soul when I get defensive.
That's not to shame us into right behavior.
It's to help us get connected to the reality of the impact.
Go, you know, roll back up here to impact.
How does it affect her when I give her the best of me?
How does it affect her when I give her the worst of me?
We get connected to that reality and the hope there is the, the.
What we want that to do is to break our hearts in a good way.
Break our hearts in a good way.
Um, I appreciate that you're.
That this is helping you with defensiveness.
Um, because we know that that is, that's going to affect her quadrant in an adverse.
Sort of way.
A participants question and a portion of George response was lost to the audio difficulties in this portion.
Who should I give?
Where are my priorities?
How is that impacting her and how does that connect to the whole?
You haven't actually sat down and.
Written it out.
I would encourage you to do that.
Um, all right.
That being said, uh, we'll, uh, we'll put a pin in that.
Also want to open it up for other other questions.
It can be related to this.
It can be related to something totally different.
Um, but what's on y'all's minds.
I have been working on apology work using Jason's pattern.
It seems to be taking a very long time to work through the process.
