Okay. Here we go. We're going to get started today. Welcome to office hours. We have been,
we decided in January, we wanted to take us, but we take everybody who's currently in recovery
and just, and we're going to go back to basics. We're going to go back to those foundational
things that we either should be doing, or, or used to do and maybe stopped, or maybe you're
still doing them. But it's always good to, to pick some time and go back and just review. What am
I doing? How am I doing it? Why am I doing it? That sort of thing. You know, I talked in the first
week of January, first full week of January. One of the things that I talked about was, you know,
starting to assess, right? Assess where you're at in your recovery. Are you doing those basic
things, those foundational things that help you? If you're mid-recovery and it kind of feels like
you're hitting a plateau, really good time to assess, am I doing the things that got me here, right?
Looking for ultimately what's helping, what's not helping, and what changes and tweaks do I need
to make, so that I can continue the recovery that I need to go, that I'm working towards.
I do, I do sincerely hope that everybody left office hours, that particular office hours,
and started to do some assessing where you're at, where you're going, and see if it lined up to
where you're aiming. You know, some of you, like I said, are going to have to make some hard decisions
and, and kind of face some hard truths. And, and others, slight adjustments and realignment
need to happen, right? And there's a handful of you in the room that you're just going to keep going
because you are doing the basic things and, and it is helping you. So, I could ask you if that's you.
So, where I want to go today, the things I want to talk through are,
let's just think about, well, hang on just a second, we're going to mute. Remember, if you are not
talking, please go on mute and stay on mute that way. That was a distracting for others and
namely me. So, today what I want to do is take us down to, to basics in terms of
roles,
character,
quadrants. Okay, like roles, character quadrants is where we're going to go back to.
All right. What I want to do as far as roles goes is I, I want us to just take, take a minute
and think, think through what roles do I operate in, right? A role is a function or an expected
behavior as a result of assuming a position that, hang on. Okay, let me start that over.
Roles are, it's the function that's assumed by a person or a thing in a given action or process,
right? It's, it's the function. It's the expected behavior that is assumed by a person or a thing
in a given action or a process. So, let's think about this roles. What roles are you in?
I'll, I'll make, I'll make a list of them. Some of the ones that I met. So, I'm a son of God.
I'm a husband.
I'm a father.
I'm a coach.
Well, Christian, I'm a son. I'm a brother.
O- moaner. I'll stop there. Okay. Yeah.
You know what? I'm going to say, little coach, okay?
These are the roles I met now on in the given day,
the the roles that I'm operating the most in are going to float to the top, right?
So, for example, this evening, I, as a father, will be assistant coaching a
basketball team that my sons on. So, I will be entering my top primary roles. There
will be father, little league coach, those bubble up to the top, okay? The roles
that I'm in in my life, they don't go away. They're just not the active roles
that I'm currently in. And I would, I would argue, though, as I'm saying that,
that I'm always operating in the role of a husband, right? And so, so that if I were
to restate that this evening, when I go to, as a father, to literally basketball
coaching, I'm also going as a husband. So, those would be my top three. I would
also say, I'm always the son of God. So, here we now are at top four. The
connectedness I have to those roles while I'm engaging in the ones that are in
front of me. Meaning, I'm at the gym with my son, the gymnasium, the basketball
gym. If, if I'm not present with the reality that God is there, I will, like
the, the awareness and connectedness to my role as a son of God will, will fall
down a little lower. My, same with my, with my, my role as a husband. If I'm not
aware, and I'm not living into, from an integrated perspective, that I'm there
with my son as father. If I'm, I got to restart that. If I'm at the gymnasium
with my son at the basketball practice, and I'm not paying attention to the fact
that I am a husband, just because Emma's not there, I'm going to be
disintegrated. I'm not living into the reality that two became one. And that's
really important for me. It's really important for everybody on the call.
Right. You guys have heard Jason, me, Jordan, David, say things like this all
the time, like, whatever I do, whatever I think, whatever I say, whatever I speak,
the air I breathe, the food I eat, the, the everything that I do, I don't do
individually. I don't do as myself. I do that as Thomas and Emma Berry.
Because 23 years ago, God changed Thomas Berry to Thomas and Emma Berry.
So super important that I, that I say connected to that.
Right. So, you know, with that in mind, you could argue that one and two are
always top and should be handled as such. And then everything else underneath
that kind of flip flops around. And you might even be able to make a case for
some of them to be higher up or whatever, but just go with it for now. Okay.
So, if these are the roles I'm in, and I want to think about things like, like,
I want to go back to basics with this stuff.
Have I acknowledged the roles that I'm in?
Have I delineated what roles I'm operating in, like right now?
Just a quick friendly reminder. If you're not talking, please go on mute.
If, if you've never taken the time and energy to understand, you know,
so some people say how many different hats do you wear? It's the same thing, right?
How many hats do you wear? How many roles do you, do you fill?
And it's really important to know that because if you're someone that has a lot of roles,
and you get the time, you're operating in multiple roles, and you really could be connected to that.
Back up. These are the roles we're in. Now, again, we're going to go back to basics with this.
Let's think about the roles we're in, and let's connect this to the character of the man God is calling me to in these roles.
There may be, and the reason why I'm saying let's go and connect the character to the role,
is because there may be some roles that there is some growing in specific character traits,
not that all of the roles that the character God's calling you to wouldn't infiltrate and be helpful or useful.
But sometimes it really is easy. It's easier to maybe digest or to understand or to focus on things from a role perspective.
And this is not new. I think we talked about this maybe back in October or September, something similar to this.
From a character perspective.
From a character perspective, I want to hone in on closing on husband for justice.
Yeah.
Okay.
Back on.
I want to hone in on.
So back to basics. And for me, back to basics.
I want to start here with character.
What character is God growing in us and I want us to really hone in on our role as a husband.
Knowing that when we pay attention and we're getting and we're locked into the character that we're growing into with our lives,
it is applicable across the board.
Again, there may be others in other places that other characteristics that you're growing towards in different roles,
but if we hone in here, this will be a good way to get started anyway.
Okay. So as a husband,
let's say the characteristics, the character that you're being grown towards is someone who is.
In topic.
Hender.
Loving.
Attentive.
Attentive.
Transparent.
You got to say, oh, what I mean by that is.
Integrity. Right. The, the, the root of the word integrity is integer, which is whole.
And so to be whole.
As a, as a character trait.
As a husband, I would conceptualize that as being the same person, whether she is in the room or not.
Okay. So if we were to just take some of these, and I'm probably leaving a million of them out compassionate.
Pursuant, right. You know what, let's just put them back.
Compassionate.
Pursuant.
Protective.
Curious.
Again, super simple. Back to basics kind of stuff here.
If this is the character that God is calling me to.
In this role, and maybe other roles that I'm in right now.
This becomes the, the, the lens that I'm looking through.
This becomes the thing that when, when I pick up the phone to call my wife.
Am I connected to.
I'm operating primarily in my husband role.
And these are the characteristics that I'm working to be to grow in.
I almost said be better. I don't like that language and I'm not trying to adopt it.
I need to grow an empathy. So how am I using that phone call to engage empathy?
I need to be the, again, the character of the man God is calling me to is to be tender.
Am I tender with her on the phone?
Let's flip that the other way around.
Let's say here at work and she calls you.
Are you tender? Are you loving? Are you attentive?
Or.
Is she hearing.
You typing while you're talking. Can she tell that you're distracted?
That, that might not feel very tender. It might not feel attentive. It might not feel very loving.
In that phone call, if she's telling you that.
The washing machine is making a noise.
And you go, what do you want me to do about it?
Is that kind? Is it loving? Is it tender?
Are you getting connected to what it means for her to have a washing machine that's making noises that you hear in every square inch of the house?
If you're not there and you don't hear it, right?
The point I'm trying to make is often.
And I'm guilty of this too. So please, please hear this, right?
I'm talking to myself and I'm talking to everybody on the call here.
Often when we feel calls from our wives, when we have conversations with our wives,
when we leave the house without our wives, when we leave our house with our wives.
We're not connected to the character of the man that God is calling us to be.
Otherwise, if we were, oh, actually, let me say it like this,
maybe a really good exercise would be to notate.
Take a look at the last time you got a phone call from her.
Take a look at the last conversation you had with her.
Take a look at the last time you all went out together.
What happened? How did it go? Did you argue?
Was there a fight? Was there conflict?
What was the character that you were operating in?
Were you flustered? Were you frustrated?
Were you speaking? Were you raising your voice to her?
How does that fit with the character of the man that God is calling you to be?
Within that role.
Hopefully, you're starting to see my point, right?
If I know this is who I'm becoming and I write that down on a piece of paper or a whiteboard,
put it on the side of my desk. I put it in my recovery file, right?
I announce it to my recovery group, guys, but I never take it to heart,
and I never go hold up.
What is God calling me to here?
How am I operating in this character with her?
Am I?
Is there ways or places for me to improve this or grow in this?
The answer is always yes.
If you're looking at this list of characteristics and you're thinking about how you're engaged with your wife and you're like,
I've got this.
No, I'm there.
I'm going to ask you to challenge yourself there because I don't think that's true.
It's not for me. It's not for Jason.
It's not for Jordan.
Anybody on staff here would tell you where some of us two decades,
some of us decade and a half into this and various levels of recovery,
time and recovery, and there's always room for me to be more impacted.
There's always room for me to be more tender, more loving, more attentive, more kind, more transparent, more whole,
more compassionate, more pursuit, more protective, more curious, and it goes on.
Sometimes I lose sight of that.
Sometimes I get out in front of myself and I'm like,
we've been doing this for 13, 14 years.
It's just understood that my heart is these things.
I've grown a lot in these areas.
And it's like we're riding and coasting on the benefit of the hard work we did in early recovery when we were hyper focused on this stuff.
And if we're not careful, we start letting go of the basics.
The foot starts coming off the gas.
And you know what starts to happen then?
Distance, disintegration, conflict, defensiveness, acting in, more so than, right?
Destruction.
When we take our eyes off of the character that God is calling us to, we'll let our foot off the gas.
And so big time out.
All of the tools that we have that are in the toolbox, emotional journaling, quadrants, bow ties, fit naps, amends, right?
Probably a few more in there.
All of those tools are not the tools to fix a problem.
It's a tool to help you grow your character.
And maybe some of you never thought about that.
I can do fit naps all day long.
I could write them out all day long.
I could have one every day.
And if the sole purpose and what I'm doing it for is to check it off the box.
All right.
Check that box.
Say I did it.
I'm doing recovery.
I'm doing recovery.
But I don't see how.
I don't let the, the intimacy of that moment with myself with Emma and with God.
If I don't let that sort of shaping my character.
Right.
Then then I'm just doing it to get through it because it's something my coach aside.
If I'm not looking at, go, okay, how do I feel?
Okay. How does she feel?
And if I'm not connecting emotionally to what she's saying she's feeling.
I'm, I'm not really showing up with intimacy.
I'm not really showing up at a basic level.
In the tool that I'm engaging and just running the tool out because.
I'll use a tool analogy because it's the, it's the Phillips head screwdriver that fits the screw that needs to be turned.
It's, it's an externally motivated external locus of control.
Not an internal realization that the more I work on these things, the more I engage emotional journal.
And get connected to what I'm feeling and get connected to what arts, what, what it's like relating with my wife.
What it's, what's the last conflict, the last trigger.
What's the last thing we spent time on?
If I'm not willing to lay that up against my character and see where I have what I can own.
Owning things helps you grow, by the way.
See what I can own there, what I need to do differently and, and, right.
And, and where I've been defensive.
Can I be kind where I've been defensive?
Can I, can I be tender or loving or attentive?
Can I just take a look at that and go, man, I blew it.
And the character of the man that God is growing in me is not one.
That's a judgmental, defensive jerk.
It's not one who overpowers the person that I'm, is, is another part of me.
Or is the other part of me?
You get the point, right?
Am I pursuing?
Anyway, I think you guys are getting what I'm saying.
Now, the thing that I wanted to do with roles and character, I want to make another line over here.
I think you guys can all agree as well.
Like all of these characteristics here will help me be a better little league coach,
a better homeowner, brother, son, Christian, coach, father, husband, son of God.
Thank you.
Working on this and, and this relationship right here, it will overflow into others.
Now, let's take a look at this quadrant tool.
What I would encourage you guys to consider or to do is when you do quadrant work,
consider taking the husband role, consider taking the primary role that you're in.
Maybe it's employer, maybe it's coach, right?
But sorry with husband and, and just process for a minute.
From a mind, heart and body, soul perspective.
As a husband who has these characteristics, what are ways that I might be thinking?
Might be thinking in terms that edify.
I, I might be, I might be thinking in terms of holding in high esteem.
Right?
So, so edify and holding in high esteem.
You know, it's not holding her in high esteem is when we, when we get into a conversation with them
and, and we speak derogatorily about that.
Right? Like some, some, some guys I've heard of this.
You know, wife will be triggered and she'll come in and intimately,
evolnably share her pain or step into something and go,
Hey, can we talk about this?
And a husband comes back and says, you know, you, you always just want to bring this stuff up.
Like when, when you go to pass me to pass, when you're going to let this go.
Right? You always come in here and you always pick me apart.
You always want to talk about the things that I'm doing that are, that are subpar,
the things that have issues or like you just, you just, you don't ever want to like.
Honor me. You don't ever want to, um, you don't ever want to like.
Affirm me.
Well, you just villainized her. You just put, you took her out of a high esteem place
and he started dragging her through the mud.
That'd be really good for you to get clarity on what you're feeling in that situation.
And you can do so in a way that is holding her in high esteem.
Because that's, that's the husband who's tender, who's loving, who's armed,
who's compassionate, who's pursuant, who's protective.
So we can start to use our quadrants in the way we think and tied to our character.
All right. Um, feeling. All right. And I was a, uh.
Sorry.
What, so thinking about what would, uh, what would this character.
Feel towards or for his life, right? There's, there's tenderness.
That's also, you know, it's character. There's loving.
Right. There's, um.
Yeah. Well, I mean, let's just keep that. Let's just start there.
So let's think about what happens when I get into the room with her.
Do I, do I feel tender towards her? Do I feel loving towards her?
Sometimes when guys, guys, when we go into the room, we're bracing for impact going.
Totally matter of time before she says something that hurts me.
Yes.
The thing that's hurting you is her expression of the pain that you've caused most of the time.
Right. So, so that's a little off.
And I would bring you back over here to edification and holding her hostage.
The feeling that you're feeling isn't.
Necessarily hurt wounded.
I would suggest rather.
That's a mask in what you're feeling is embarrassed about being the kind of guy that wasn't operating these characteristics.
That's present in the pain she's bringing up.
I'm embarrassed. I'm ashamed. I'm disgusted.
I'm remorseful.
And all that sorts to come out in my heart in ways that are not loving or are not tender.
Okay. So in our body.
I'm someone in with that's working towards these characteristics.
I might feel I'm going to say like.
Oops.
Right.
Because the opposite would be tense. Right.
Someone that's that's not empathic or tender or loving or attentive or kind or transparent or whole.
Like if I'm struggling with transparency and that's driving anxiety.
I'm going to walk into the room or the phone call and I'm going to be tense.
And if I'm tense in my body, guess what?
That's going to come out in what I'm feeling and what I'm thinking and how I'm speaking.
So if if I'm looking at things from a broader perspective and I'm feeling tense.
I need to be paying attention to that.
I need to start asking yourself what do I need because I might be I might be loose.
I might feel.
I don't know.
I don't have that one for that right now.
If I thought about it, I probably could get a little bit more there.
Spiritually speaking.
This man here might be.
Might be might be being called into back into leadership on his home.
After abandoning post and betraying.
There is a call to come back in the leadership, but not to take it by force or not to take it by right.
But through developing character, building trust and safety and security so much so.
That the mental leadership can start coming back to you.
But you know what?
It's not going to happen.
If if we're operating in our quadrants in the opposite space.
So.
This might be the template quadrant, if you will.
And you might do this for yourself.
But what for me to operate in mind, heart, body and soul in the husband role with the characteristics that I believe God is calling me to.
And you may have that template handy so that whenever you do a quadrant.
When you're in conflict with your wife or when you know you have to have a heart conversation with your wife.
Or you just had a heart conversation with your wife.
And you're going to act, you're going to do a real time quadrant.
You can very quickly see where.
Where you're at versus where you're aiming yourself and make the necessary corrections.
Right. So again, if I'm.
If I'm.
If I'm struggling.
With clarity.
On what I'm thinking, I feel much branded and I feel I'm just like.
I'm villainizing.
I'm realizing her.
I can easily look at that and go, okay, hold up.
I'm struggling with clarity and I'm, and I'm realizing her.
Well, what would it look like to clear up.
This, the way I'm thinking.
If I'm angry, angling the thoughts that I'm having about her and about that conversation.
Through the lens of edification through the lens of high steam.
How will that change what I'm thinking?
How, if I'm holding her in high steam, or I'm villainizing her so to speak.
And, and what I'm called to is to hold her in high steam.
The work there then becomes, how do I move from being the victim to.
To understanding what I'm thinking about.
What just happened while holding her in high steam.
She is not the enemy.
My wounding is my enemy.
My behavior is, is my enemy.
Right. Not her.
So we can take each one of these quadrants when we have the template that's tied to the character that's tied to the role.
We can easily look at this and go, okay, this is the man I'm aiming my life at.
And I just had this phone call where I coast her out and hung up on her and threatened divorce.
Well, should be able to look at that and go that's way off.
And the more you do that, the, the more ingrained, the more ingrained you are with the character of the man that you're becoming.
And the goal here would be so that the next time you pick up the phone, the next time you see her, the next time you get connected to her.
You already have it on your mind.
This is where I'm leaning into.
Whether you know you're going to talk about a triggering conversation, you know, you're going to be talking about her pain.
You just, you're going to coaching or you're coming out of coaching.
This is on your mind because you've been studying what God is calling you to and what it looks like in your mind and in your heart and in your body and your soul.
These things start lining up.
The plan versus actual starts to be one in the same.
Now, imperfectly, of course, please hear my heart there.
I'm putting this up there and right.
I'll be the first to say I let Emma down.
I'm not above.
I'm writing in some of the opposites here.
But, but I can honestly say that when I see it, when I feel it, when I catch it, when she points it out, whatever the case is.
I can very quickly come back to that is not the character of the man God has been growing in me in the last 13 years.
There's my work. I am determined to do something different.
Which means I need to deal with me, not I need to stuff my emotions or stuff was going on with me.
Now, I need to do the work to understand how I got from here to here.
And then do whatever work I need to do to get back to here.
Prime example, we can have a disagreement and she doesn't have to be the jerk that shuts me down or doesn't doesn't listen to what I have to say.
We can have a disagreement and I can own that I am up.
I am talking to her with a raised voice.
I am not hearing what she's saying and making her repeat herself, which doesn't feel safe.
And when things don't feel safe, it's necessary and right for her to stop the conversation to protect herself.
Why? Because I'm not protecting her.
And now I'm getting connected to all of those quadrants.
And you know what I'm not doing.
I'm not dragging her through the mud.
Holding her in high esteem.
Because she deserves that.
So I wanted to take that the quadrant tool and I want to take it back to a really fundamental and basics level.
These are the roles I'm in.
This is the character the man got is calling me to do.
And this is how to apply that in one of these tools.
As a template, as a leg slip through that I can hold up next to what's actually happening today.
Because that can help me identify the work needed today.
And tomorrow and the next day.
So if you've never done this, if you've never tried it, I'm encouraging you to try it today.
Questions, comments, thoughts.
How's that land?
I was starting to shut down my wife so that I could be heard over what she was trying to say.
I realized very quickly what I was doing.
And of course, corrected without stewing over for days as I would have in the past.
Seeing these tools explained like this helps me see how to catch it even sooner.
I'll say one more thing that I'll shut up again and ask for questions.
I mean, even if you took the quadrant tool off and you just had a real steady bead on the character that you were growing into.
The character that God is calling you to.
And that was front and center in every conversation you had with your wife.
In every conversation you had with your kids, right?
And driving down the road, right? That's a thing for a lot of us.
If this is the man that God is calling me to be, I have to see that every situation I find myself in is an opportunity to be this, to live this out.
The resistance to do so in the moment is an indicator of where my work is.
And this is a way of drawing that out.
Okay, questions. Hey, here's the deal.
If y'all have questions about this, great.
I want to hear them. I want to answer them.
If you have questions about anything else, like whatever's going on in your story, if you need some help, great.
Ask it. If you have questions about master class stuff or videos you're watching in the academy,
please know this time is for you to be able to ask those types of questions.
I like the idea of reviewing your character regularly.
I lied to my wife about women for 25 years.
Now I'm looking for a method to help me weed out the character issues that led me to identify and sexualize women, face the issues of self-deception.
The thoughts and feelings that I may not really want to admit.
I really want to know if I'm being honest with my wife, myself.
What is a good message for check-ins that will help me be transparent and honest?
Yeah, it sounds like there's a fair amount of upstream work that needs to happen before that fit net could be really useful for this.
So I mean, I would agree.
At this point, you being
radically honest about objectification is going to feel like a dump truck of pain.
I'm not saying you shouldn't still have those conversations, especially if your wife is asking for it.
Please don't hear me saying keep things from her.
But what you're asking, I hear you asking, how do I learn to see differently?
That's your first question that I think you're asking me.
I've avoided women for the past two and a half years, and I'm coming to a place I'm speaking on your behalf, if I'm wrong, please let me know.
I'm coming to the place in my life where I realize the answer isn't avoid all things, avoid all women.
It's a matter of what women necessarily aren't bad.
It's what I do when I'm engaging women that makes things bad, and I need to fix the me part of that.
Not so I can be flippantly out and around and carelessly around women, but so that I can more live fully into who gets calling me to be.
That's, I think, some of the essence of what you're asking me.
To that, I would say, first and foremost, go listen to the RL podcast number 18, and if you've already listened to it, listen to it again.
When I go and listen to those broadcasts that I still do from time to time, not as often as I want to, I can always pull new information out of those.
They're just good, they're gold, and if you're not taking advantage of that resource, please do.
If you're not repeating it on things that are struggle, then you're doing yourself a disservice.
That's my caveat and disclaimer.
Go check out episode number 18, which is changing how we see.
What I hear you also saying is you want to overcome this hurdle of being really deceptive to yourself.
So in other words, you weren't a judge to find her, you didn't look longer than two seconds, but you looked for like.
One point, nine, nine, nine, nine, nine, hundreds of a second is just to the edge where if it's two seconds, it's less, you know, that kind of delineation that's hedging that's.
And that's dangerous, and that's a hard issue, which is a back to changing how we see.
So the first thing I would say is you're going to have to spend some time, probably with your journal.
Getting down to the nitty gritty and the ugly of ways that you have viewed women, what, like, what are the things you've said to yourself that you've never said out loud?
What are the things that those, the, the, the really destructive and hard things that you've agreed with or said, yeah, that's true, that allowed you to use women for utility and lustful objects instead of people.
I think you got to start by outside of the moment, just getting really honest with yourself and facing the ugly of that.
PS side note, that's part of what disclosure helps us to do. So if you haven't been through disclosure, I would say you should do that.
But you've got to start getting honest with yourself outside the moment.
And then once you know what those tendencies are, what those tracks are, I would encourage you to take a look at.
If I know how I'm thinking about women, there might be some kind of reaction in my body when I'm starting to have those thoughts.
My heart might race, I might get sweaty, you know, my head might be on a swivel, my eyes might get big or get little.
I might feel some tension, like, okay, when you're thinking those thoughts, something's happening in your body and what you're doing is creating awareness to that's an alarm that I'm not okay and I need to deal with myself.
I would tell you too, some of this is something that's been super helpful for me.
I didn't even realize I was going to relate this to the quadrants, but it's really apparent as I'm answering your question.
One of the things that's really helpful for me around like intrusive thoughts or like these memories of the things that I've done that I do not want to remember is tying it back to the creator's creation.
So my process is this, when a memory comes or an intrusive thought, I'll stop in my tracks sometimes if I have to and I'll just have a conversation with God that looks like this, like, hey, God, that's not for me.
That right there, this image, this thought, this memory, whatever it is that's going on, that is a gross perversion of something that you intended for good for those that are married.
And I for one, I've used that. I for one took that for granted and hurt people with it starting with you, myself, my wife, and anyone else that was subject to it.
I do not want this, please take it. So for me, tying it back to a spiritual place to the original, like the creator's creation of it helped me see it in disgust, which made it really easy for me to get it out.
So all that to say, if you want to start changing something, those are the two places I would go upstream first, and then maybe even consider like once you know what, again, what happens in your body, how you're interacting with the greater of the universe with this and what thoughts you're having, or have been tempted to have in the past.
Maybe you got a piece of paper in your journal that you should kind of keep with you.
Or if you're doing a T30 journal on the left side of it or the right side of it, you just kind of put a little tick mark if you had a bot like this today and then hold yourself accountable to being accountable to your wife about that.
Right.
That's those are places to start. That's kind of long-winded and I apologize for being long-winded, but that's my answer.
Thank you. I think I was still struggling with the journaling and making sure that I'm being fully honest with myself and others.
How can you be really sure that you're being honest and not fooling other people or yourself?
Yeah.
Getting as many places as you can where you're looking at a mirror, not through it.
Right.
Whether that's accountability people, your wife, your, you know, your own scrutiny.
I mean, if you know that about yourself, you could take some agency and ownership to go.
Do I need to call BS here?
Yeah.
Okay. We could do one more.
If I don't get as long-winded on my response, one more question or we can hop out of here.
Leave it up to you guys.
Somebody go off mute and ask a question.
All right.
Guys, thank you for joining office hours.
We'll see you guys next week.
Same time, same channel. We'll wrap up this back to basic stuff.
If you have any questions about this, please reach out in the get in touch with us section of the academy or reach out directly if you have that information.
Thank you for joining.
We'll see you guys.
