Hi y'all, Jason Mortenka's here. In today's video, I want to talk about self-intimacy.
So you're going to hear us say a lot. Intimacy is the antidote. Intimacy is the antidote
to our struggles. Intimacy is the antidote to relational issues. Intimacy is the antidote.
You'll hear us say that over and over again. And we're talking about intimacy with God,
with others and with ourselves. And so today, I want to focus on self-intimacy. And what
I want to do is talk about a couple of really practical ways that we can develop self-intimacy
or self-awareness. And we're modeling this off of a biblical model of a holistic person.
The idea is we are holistic people who are made up of mind, heart, body and soul. So
that's our framework where we're starting. And the way that we talk about this is in
the form of quadrants. Quadrants. So mind, heart, body and soul. You can do this exercise
at any given moment, at any time, for any reason to figure out what's going on with me, develop
self-intimacy. Okay? So the idea is this mind, what we're talking mind, what we're talking
about is what's going on with our thoughts. How are we thinking? Is it optimistic? Is
it pessimistic? Are we thinking thoughts that are positive or negative? Are thoughts clear
or is it kind of foggy? Are we sort of foggy today? We can look at this theologically and
say, are we operating with the mind of Christ? Are we thinking about people, about situations
and circumstances, the way that Jesus would? Okay? So what's happening in our thoughts?
All right? Our heart, our heart, what's going on emotionally? Specifically, what am I feeling
right now? And sometimes, so guys get hung up on this, there's an acronym in recovery
called Halt's. Hungry and low and tired, six-set, scared, seemed, stressed, that kind
of thing. Some of those aren't emotions. So guys would go, what do you feel? Well, I'm
hungry. That's not emotion. I'm tired. That's not emotion. Right? We want to make sure
that we're dealing specifically in emotion. So this is, what am I experiencing emotionally
right now? Okay? Body is what's going on physically? What's going on physically? Now, I want to
talk about this because this is really important. A lot of times, our body will give us clues
to something going on with us emotionally before we ever feel it. All right? Meaning,
sometimes our face will turn red before we feel the emotion of embarrassment. Sometimes
our palms or sweat or our pits will be sweating because we're anxious before we even realize
we're feeling anxiety or our heart will race and we'll feel like a, you know, a noticeable
like jitteriness before we realize that we're nervous or we feel fear. Okay? Our body physically
can tell us something's going on. Whether it's, it's in the form of a physical response,
like sweating, twitching, shaking, that kind of thing, or it's like we feel sick or nauseous
or tension, you know, those kinds of things can all tell us what's going on with us. All
right? And then finally, from a soul perspective, this is like, where am I with God? And I think
about this from a standpoint of God is always doing something in us through us and around
us, in us through us and around us. And so we think about that, like Jesus was on the move
and God is doing something like through him and around him all the time. I don't know
that God had to do anything in him per se because he was God, you follow me. What I'm saying
though is with us, God is doing something in us through us and around us. And so this idea,
where am I spiritually at the moment? Like, am I, am I connected to God? Do I feel close or
distant? What's God doing in through and around me right now? Okay? It's just sort of taking
stock of what's going on spiritually at any given moment. Okay? Now, here's thing, this can
tell us something's happened and we're experiencing it now, or it can also be anticipatory. It can
be kind of like a warning indicator that something's going on or about to go on. Okay? In either of
those things, whether it's because of something or it's an anticipation of something, our self
awareness gives us an opportunity to choose what the next right thing will be. All right? And so
let me, let me give you a couple examples. We'll just kind of frame it up so that we're all on the
same page. All right, let's say that I just walked out of a fight with my wife, all right? So,
or girlfriend, whatever your situation is, okay? So we got our quadrants, right? Mind, heart, body
soul. Okay? I'm gonna, I'm gonna do that a little bit differently just because I'll take up more
space than the box. Okay? But here's our quadrant. All right? So in the mind quadrant, all right,
let's say I just walked out of sight, fight my wife. What am I thinking? I'm thinking vilifying
thoughts towards her. I feel like I'm a victim, like she doesn't get it, she doesn't understand me,
she does it, she falsely, I feel falsely accused or I perceive that I'm falsely accused. And I am
I'm feeling defensive. Okay? That's over here in the heart side. I'm feeling misunderstood as well.
All right? Also in the thoughts, I'm very pessimistic in that place. Let's just say I come out of that
fight and I'm not in a like hopeful positive place. I'm in a very pessimistic place, especially if
those conversations are around something that was triggering or it's about the past and betrayal
and stuff like that, right? So I got this stuff going on my head. I feel defensive, misunderstood.
I feel hurt by some of the stuff that she said. I also feel regret for some of the stuff that I
said. At this point, I also am feeling hopeless because I don't know how this whole thing turns
around. This is just an example, right? Okay, body, what's going on? So tension in my neck,
right? I've been griting my teeth.
You know, maybe I'm hot. I feel like I'm overheating. Like, wow, there's just all that physically going
on, right? Where is God? I don't know. I sure would have been nice for him to show up in the middle
of that conversation and zip my lips so I didn't say some of the stuff I said or so she wouldn't
have said some of the stuff she would have said. Like, I don't know where God is at the moment.
Maybe that's your answer, right? And then if you think about it for a minute, you go, okay, well,
what's God doing in me? Well, maybe this is an opportunity for him to cultivate empathy for me
or in me. And I sort of missed it. I went down the defensive path rather than the empathic path.
Okay, so here's a quadrant of what just happened from my wife. And now we're asking the question,
what's the next? Not that you can read my penmanship. I should have been a surgeon, right?
Next right thing. What's the next right thing? Based on all this, right? What's the next right
thing for me to do? And I don't know. There's no right answer. Maybe the next right thing is to
call her and apologize. Maybe the next right thing is practice empathy. Maybe the next right
thing is don't do anything. Just let this sit for a little while, because if you text your
call her, it's not going to go well for you or for her. I don't know. Okay, what's the next
right? That's the question we're asking. And when we say this, when I say what's the next right thing,
I'm simultaneously asking, like, what's God calling me to?
Right, what's God calling me to? Like, who is he calling me to be in this moment now that this
has happened? Okay, that's how we're processing this thing. All right, let's do another one.
Let's talk anticipatory. All right, let's say that you've got a really hard conversation coming up
with an employee. Because you have to put them on notice because their performance is below par
and, you know, it's one of those kinds of things. And so, what are you thinking? Man, you're thinking
like, how can I be a good leader in this? How can I handle this with diplomacy and tact?
How can I also be encouraging to them instead of kind of like communicating that this is the
beginning of the end? Even if it is, like, how do I be a good leader in all that? Maybe that's
where your thoughts are. And they're optimistic in that respect, okay? What are you feeling?
You got some anxiety? I'm saying for myself, if I were in this situation, I had some anxiety,
like, how's this going to go? How are they going to take it? You know, they got stuff going on at
home and they're, you know, one of their children was just diagnosed with cancer. And this is not
the right time. And like, maybe you feel you're going to catch 22. And that feels kind of like
powerless. Because somebody above you is saying you got to have this conversation. You follow me
there? And then maybe there's also a part of you that feels determined. Like, I am going to step into
this place of leadership. And what's going on physically? Kids sweating, right? Like,
whoo, I got to have that conversation this afternoon. I already feel like,
ah, about it, okay? Um, maybe you also, maybe, um, over here, you also feel stress with that
anxiety. And maybe for you, there's Twitch. I'll tell you for me, when I feel overwhelmed and
stressed out, I get Twitch in my eyelid. It'll be one or the other. And it's just, it's annoying
as all get out. And it's indicative of the fact that I'm feeling a tremendous amount of stress.
And I'm probably not dealing with it very well at the moment. Okay. Um, what's God doing? Where
am I with God? Okay. Well, I'm, I'm going to be prayerful walking into that. I feel like what's
God doing in me? Um, growing character in terms of perseverance, maybe, um, maybe kindness.
God wants to grow kindness. And maybe God wants to use me, what's God doing in the other person?
Um, maybe God is growing some self controlled in them. And I'm a conduit. I'm a part of that
by helping them realize that they can't slack off. They actually got to be dialed in on their
work. Can't be on Facebook, why are you capable? Whatever. Right. Maybe there's something that's,
that I'm a part of God doing in their life. I'm not just the heavy handed bad guy who's delivering
bad news today. Okay. So in light of that, what's the next right thing? Right? What's God calling
me to? What's my call here? And looking at that going, okay, well, yeah, the next right thing is for
me to talk to one of my buddies or talk to my boss and just make sure, you know, talk to one of
my buddies to get encouragement to go into that situation, right? And lead, well, maybe just talk
to my boss so that I make sure that I'm on the same page with him. And this really is the right
next step before that three o'clock meeting today. Maybe that's just the way that you engage the
work or prayer today as you're leading up to that. What's the next right thing? Maybe the next
right thing for you is these are really hard conversations. And the next right thing is close
your calendar from four o'clock on because you're going home. Because when that conversation is
done, you're going to be wiped out, right? What's the next right thing? What's God calling you to?
Now, hopefully you're following with me. I want to connect a couple of quick dots and then we're
going to pivot a little bit, right? We're going to put some more like practical work in here.
What I want you to see is these things are all connected to integrity because they're connected
to character. They're connected to sexual integrity because they're connected to character. And here's
what I mean. If I just had a fight, my wife, I got this stuff going on, I feel a lot of these things,
there's a likelihood that I may want to medicate all that, which might lead to temptation, which
might lead me down the path of acting out somehow. And the issue isn't, I've got an open computer or
an open iPad with no blocks on it, no covenantized on or whatever your thing is, right? Maybe the
deal is it's less about that and it's really more about I need to learn to deal with my feeling
misunderstood, hurt, regret, and hopelessness. Because if I deal with that, well, then it doesn't
matter if there's an open iPad in front of me. It's not about the that sexual integrity thing
isn't about the opportunity or availability. It's about actually my character dealing with
what's going on with me. Okay, same thing here. This would be the kind of situation where a guy
might act out at noon in anticipation of that conversation, or he might act out at 430 after
he just had that conversation. But if you're actually aware of it, if you see that come in
and you're connected to what's going on here, and you can decide on the next right thing
in advance of having to make that thing that decision, you set yourself up to be a man of
character, to live with integrity, to live with honor, so that you don't have to worry about the
acting out. Okay, I hope that that makes sense. That's how they're connected. Okay,
because they're connected in character. Character means I'm going to do the next right thing. That
honor means I'm going to do what God is calling me to. I'm going to be who God is calling me to be.
Okay. All right, so, quadrants. When you hear us talk about quadrants, this is what we're talking
about. All right, if you need to come back, watch this video over and over again, so you get it,
do please. Okay. I don't know, I think it's just a random side note, this bonus. You didn't
pay for this. If you think about this in context of like Adam and Eve, think about an Adam,
right? Like if Adam were in the garden and he took a time out and he were like, I'm going to do a
little quadrant work right here. Eve's over there, me entering around that tree, and she's like,
got an apple. She's kind of churning it in her hand, looking at it. She's got that look on her face,
and he's going, man, we shouldn't do this. Thoughts, we shouldn't do this. God said, don't
it. This isn't good. I don't like where this is going. All right. And emotionally, there's anxiety,
his pits are sweating, his eyes twitching. He's like, ah, stuttering. Hey, babe, hold up. Do you,
maybe, hey, no, come on. Think about, do you, bit, physically, all that stuff's going spiritually,
like something in his soul is going, ah, don't do it. What if, just, this is bonus, like I said,
all right? This is just kind of the crazy stuff that goes on in my head. What if, what if Adam
were able to pause for a minute and do take stock of what's going on in and then go, what's the next
right thing? What is God calling me to? Right? And at that point, he like tackles her and knocks
the apple out of her hand and is like, no, we're not doing it. I don't know. All right. Next piece
on this is roles. So at any given moment, I just gave you two examples. My wife in a conversation
with an employee, right? At any given moment, we all play multiple roles. So in those two, we were
husband and we were boss. All right. Authority figure, however you want to say that husband and boss,
those were our roles. Okay. Husband boss. All right. At any given moment, we play the part of
multiple roles. We're husband and boss simultaneously. We're an employee. All right. We're, uh, we're
friend. We're son. We're son in law. We're a father. We're neighbor. All right. Um, maybe you're
Christian. Um, I could, I could go on, but let's stop there. So what we can do, and, and I don't
want this to be overwhelming, and I don't want to feel like busy work. That's not the point of this.
Okay. What I want this to be is a really helpful tool. So at any given moment, we could do quadrant
work on any of those roles. And it's actually a really helpful exercise to take stock of those
and practice it. And here's what I mean. Let's say that, uh, you know, let's say it's 11 o'clock in
the morning on a Thursday. And, uh, you are going to do this work. So at 11 o'clock in the morning,
and morning on a Thursday, you go, uh, you know what? What are the main, what are the top two roles
I'm experiencing right at this moment? And let's say you're, um, you're sitting at your desk and you
just happen to think about, you're thinking about a situation with your kids and you're thinking
about a fight with your wife. Well, in this moment, you're primarily a husband and primarily a father.
So you could do quadrant work on that as a, as a father. What am I thinking about, right?
Well, I'm thinking about how the conversation with my son, I had really given my daughter,
but I wish to come better with my son. And what do I feel hopeful about that, the discouragement
about that, what I'm physically, what's going on. I just, I don't know, I feel a little heavy,
you know, when I think about what's going on with my son, where's God's spiritually? Well,
I don't know, maybe trying to help me become the father he wants me to be and that that
son needs and how's that looking? What's the next right thing for me to do relative to my son
or daughter and the same process for husband, right? Maybe it's four o'clock in the afternoon and
you just got a call from your mom. And after you hang up the phone, you go, all right, well,
what's the top couple of things? Well, number one is son. Okay. And maybe something about that
connects to your faith journey. So you can take a moment right there and go, get out of your
journal, draw the quadrice and go, okay, well, what am I thinking is between a son? Man, I'm thinking
I love my mother, but she makes it difficult for me or I wish I had a closer relationship with my
mom because I really enjoy her when we talk. She's just not available very much. And so I'm just
thinking positive thoughts towards her or negative thoughts. What do I feel? Well, I feel guilty as
a son because I don't call off to that. Well, I feel hopeful because we're our relationship is
changing at this season of our lives. I don't know what it is, right? You probably would say in here,
what's God doing? Oh, well, how do God's trying to show me how I honor my mom or my dad at this
season of life? And that for what's the next right thing? Well, that looks like I need to call,
or I don't need to call, or I need to send flowers, or I need to, I don't know, invite them to the
kid's soccer game. Whatever it is. Okay. At any given moment, and it changes moment to moment,
right? Right now at 11, you may be more husband and son role. By noon, you may be more boss and
Christian. And by four o'clock, the most pressing thing may be friend because of something that
goes on with the body of yours, right? It changes moment to moment. And the dynamic nature of it
means we have to operate embracing that dynamic. We have to look at this and instead of going,
and I'm generalizing here, okay, for a lot of guys, we're only connected to what is
immediately pressing on us. And this isn't true across the board. For a lot of guys, we're only
connected to what's immediately pressing on us and whatever the first layer of emotion is.
And it's important for us to more holistically look at our lives and the way that we would say
that is we need to look at our lives in an integrative way. And the root of integrative is
integrity. We're an integrated hope. At any given moment, I am all of these,
right? At any given moment, I'm all of these. Now, one may be bubbling to the surface at a
different time, but just because I'm in husband moment doesn't change that I'm a son and son
could be affecting my husband ship at the moment. And I'm not aware of it, right? My faith journey
could be affecting my fathering and my friendship at the moment. And I'm not just not aware of it.
So what we're trying to do is become more holistic and integrative in the way that we
look at our lives and the way that we're connected to ourselves.
