In today's video I want to talk about self-intimacy. So you're going to hear us say a lot. Intimacy
is the antidote. Intimacy is the antidote to our struggles. Intimacy is the antidote to relational
issues. Intimacy is the antidote. You'll hear us say that over and over again. And we're talking
about intimacy with God, with others, and with ourselves. And so today I want to focus on self-intimacy.
And what I want to do is talk about a couple of really practical ways that we can develop
self-intimacy or self-awareness. And we're modeling this off of a biblical model of a holistic
person. And the idea is we are holistic people who are made up of mind, heart, body, and soul.
So that's our framework where we're starting. And the way that we talk about this is in the form
of quadrants. Quadrants. So mind, heart, body, and soul. And this is literally, you can do this
exercise. And this is part of what we're going to ask you to do as we continue on through the
curriculum. You can do this exercise at any given moment, anytime, for any reason, to figure out
what's going on with me. Develop self-intimacy. Okay? So the idea is this mind, when we're talking
mind, what we're talking about is what's going on with our thoughts. How are we thinking?
Is it optimistic? Is it pessimistic? Are we thinking thoughts that are positive or negative? Are
thoughts clear? Or is it kind of foggy? Are we sort of foggy today? We can look at this
theologically and say, are we operating with the mind of Christ? Are we thinking about
people, about situations and circumstances, the way that Jesus would? Okay? So what's happening in
our thoughts? All right, our heart, our heart, what's going on emotionally? Specifically,
what am I feeling right now? And sometimes, so guys get hung up on this, there's, there's an
acronym in recovery called Halt's, hungry and lonely, tired, sick, sad, scared,
scared, stressed, that kind of thing. Some of those aren't emotions. So guys would go,
obviously, what do you feel? Well, I'm hungry. Okay, that's not emotion. I'm tired. That's not
an emotion. Right? We want to make sure that we're dealing specifically in emotions. Okay?
And so you'll see in the curriculum, there's emotions of feelings wheel. All right, you can
use that whenever you're, you're tapping into this. This is, what am I experiencing emotionally
right now? Okay? Body is what's going on physically? What's going on physically? Now,
I want to talk about this because this is really important. A lot of times our body will give us
clues to something going on with us emotionally before we ever feel it. All right? Meaning,
sometimes our face will turn red before we feel the emotion of embarrassment. Sometimes our palms
or sweat or our pits will be sweating because we're anxious before we even realize we're feeling
anxiety or our heart will race and and will feel like a, you know, a noticeable like jitteriness
before we realize that we're nervous or we feel fear. Okay? Our body physically can tell us
something's going on. Whether it's it's in the form of a physical response like sweating,
twitching, shaking, that kind of thing, or it's like we feel sick or nauseous or tension. You know,
those kinds of things can all tell us what's going on with us. All right? And then finally,
from a soul perspective, this is like, where am I with God? And I think about this from a standpoint
of God is always doing something in us through us and around us, in us through us and around us.
And so we think about that like Jesus was on the move and God is doing something like through
him and around him all the time. I don't know that God had to do anything in him per se because he
was God. You follow me? What I'm saying though is with us, God is doing something in us through
us and around us. And so this idea, where am I spiritually at the moment? Like, am I connected
to God? Do I feel close or distant? What's God doing in through and around me right now? Okay?
It's just sort of taking stock of what's going on spiritually at any given moment. Okay? Now,
here's thing. This can tell us something's happened and we're experiencing it now,
or it can also be anticipatory. It can be kind of like a warning indicator that something's
going on or about to go on. Okay? In either of those things, whether it's because of something
or it's in anticipation of something, our self-awareness gives us an opportunity to choose
what the next right thing will be. All right? And so let me give you a couple of examples. We'll
just kind of frame it up so that we're all on the same page. All right? Let's say that I just walked
out of a fight with my wife, all right? So, or girlfriend, whatever your situation is, okay?
So, we got our quadrants, right? Mind, heart, body, soul, okay? I'm going to do that a little
bit differently just because I'll take up more space than the box, okay? But here's our quadrant,
all right? So, in the mind quadrant, all right, let's say I just walked out of a fight with my
wife. What am I thinking? I'm thinking vilifying thoughts towards her. I feel like I'm a victim,
like she doesn't get it, she doesn't understand me, she does it. She falsely, I feel falsely accused
or I perceive that I'm falsely accused and I am feeling defensive, okay? That's over here in the
heart side. I'm feeling misunderstood as well, all right? Also in the thoughts, I'm very pessimistic
in that place. Let's just say I come out of that fight and I'm not in a like hopeful,
positive place. I'm in a very pessimistic place, especially if those conversations are around
something that was triggering or it's about the past and betrayal and stuff like that, right?
So, I got this stuff going on my head. I feel defensive, misunderstood. I feel hurt by some
of the stuff that she said. I also feel regret for some of the stuff that I said. At this point,
I also am feeling hopeless because I don't know how this whole thing turns around. This is just
an example, right? Okay, body, what's going on? So tension in my neck, right? I've been griting my
teeth. You know, maybe I'm hot. I feel like I'm overheating. Like, wow, there's just all that
physically going on, right? Where is God? I don't know. Like, it's sure would have been nice for him
to show up in the middle of that conversation and zip my lips so I didn't say some of the stuff I
said or so she wouldn't have said some of the stuff she would have said. Like, I don't know where
God is at the moment. Maybe that's your answer, right? And then if you think about it for a minute,
you go, okay, well, what's God doing in me? Well, maybe this is an opportunity for him to cultivate
empathy for me or in me. And I sort of missed it. I went down the defensive path rather than the
empathic path. Okay, so here's a quadrant of what just happened from fighting my wife. And now we're
asking a question. What's the next? Not that you can read my penmanship. I should have been a surgeon,
right? Next right thing. What's the next right thing? Based on all of this,
right? What's the next right thing for me to do? And I don't know. There's no right answer. Maybe
the next right thing is to call her and apologize. Maybe the next right thing is practice empathy.
Maybe the next right thing is don't do anything. Just let this sit for a little while because if
you text or call her, it's not going to go well for you or for her. I don't know. Okay, what's the
next right? That's the question we're asking. And when we say this, when I say what's the next
right thing, I'm simultaneously asking, like, what's God calling me to?
Right. What's God calling me to? Like, who is he calling me to be in this moment now that this has happened? Okay, that's how we're processing this thing. All right. This, let's do another one. Let's talk anticipatory. All right, let's say that you got a really hard conversation coming up with an employee. Okay, that's how we're processing this thing. All right. Um, this, let's do another one. Let's talk anticipatory. All right, let's say that, um, you got a really hard conversation coming up with an employee.
Um, employee combo, because you have to put them on notice because their performance is below par and, you know, it's one of those kinds of things. And so, um, what are you thinking? Man, you're thinking like, um, how can I be a good leader in this? How can I handle this with diplomacy and, and tact? Uh, how can I also be in, in current
encouraging to them instead of kind of like communicating that this is the beginning of the end. Even if it is, like, how do I be a good leader and all that? Maybe that's where your thoughts are. And they're optimistic in that respect. Okay. What are you feeling? You got some anxiety? I'm, I'm saying for myself, if I were in this situation, I had some anxiety. Like, how's this going to go? How are they going to take it? You know, they got stuff going on at home. And they're
one of their children was just diagnosed with cancer. And this is not the right time. And, ah, like, maybe you feel you're in a catch 22. And that feels kind of like powerless because somebody above you is saying you got to have this conversation. You follow me there. Um, and then maybe there's also a part of you that feels determined. Like, I am going to step into this place of leadership.
And what's going on physically? Uh, kids sweating, right? Like, whoo, I got to have that conversation this afternoon. I already feel like, ah, about it. Okay. Um, maybe you also, maybe, um, over here, you also feel stress with that anxiety. And maybe for you, there's Twitch. I'll tell you for me when I feel overwhelmed and stressed out, I get Twitch in my island.
It'll be one or the other. And it's just, it's annoying as all get out. And it's indicative of the fact that I'm feeling a tremendous amount of stress. And I'm probably not dealing with it very well at the moment. Okay. Um, what's God doing? Where am I with God? Okay. Well, I'm, I'm going to be prayerful walking into that. I feel like God, what's God doing in me? Um, growing character in terms of perseverance, maybe. Uh, maybe.
Kindness. God wants to grow kindness. And maybe God wants to use me. What's God doing in the other person? Um, maybe God is growing some self controlled in them.
And I'm a conduit. I'm a part of that by helping them realize that they can't cycle. They actually got to be dialed in on their work. Can't be on Facebook, why are in your cubicle? Whatever. Right.
Maybe there's something that's that I'm a part of God doing in their life. I'm not just the heavy handed bad guy who's delivering bad news today. Okay. So in light of that, what's the next right thing? Right? What's God calling me to? What's my call here?
And looking at that going, okay, well, yeah, the next right thing is for me to talk to one of my buddies or talk to my boss and just make sure, you know, talk to one of my buddies to get encouragement to go into that situation, right? And lead. Well, maybe it's talk to my boss so that I make sure that I'm on the same page with him. And this really is the right next step before that three o'clock meeting today.
Maybe that's just the way that you engage the work or prayer today as you're leading up to that. What's the next right thing? Maybe the next right thing for you is these are really hard conversations. And the next right thing is close your calendar from four o'clock on because you're going home because when that conversation is done, you're going to be wiped out, right? What's the next right thing? What's God calling you to? Now, hopefully you're following with me.
I want to connect a couple of quick dots, and then we're going to pivot a little bit, all right?
We're going to put some more like practical work in here. What I want you to see is these things are all connected to integrity because they're connected to character.
They're connected to sexual integrity because they're connected to character. And here's what I mean. If I just had a fight with my wife, I got this stuff going on. I feel all of these things.
There's a likelihood that I may want to medicate all that, which might lead to temptation, which might lead me down the path of acting out somehow.
And the issue isn't, I've got an open computer or an open iPad with no blocks on it, no covenant eyes on or whatever your thing is, right?
Maybe the deal is it's less about that and it's really more about I need to learn to deal with my feeling misunderstood, hurt, regret and hopelessness.
Because if I deal with that, well, then it doesn't matter if there's an open iPad in front of me.
It's not about the, that sexual integrity thing isn't about the opportunity or availability. It's about actually my character dealing with what's going on with me.
Okay. Same thing here.
This would be the kind of situation where a guy might act out at noon in anticipation of that conversation.
Or he might act out at 4.30 after he just had that conversation.
But if you're actually aware of it, if you see that coming and you're connected to what's going on here and you can decide on the next right thing in advance of having to make that thing, that decision, you set yourself up to be a man of character to live with integrity, to live with honor.
So you don't have to worry about the acting out.
Okay. I hope that that makes sense. That's how they're connected. Okay. Because they're connected in character.
Character means I'm going to do the next right thing. That honor means I'm going to do what God is calling me to.
I'm going to be who God is calling me to be. Okay.
All right. So quadrants. So as we go through the curriculum, when you hear us talk about quadrants, this is what we're talking about.
All right. If you need to come back, watch this video over and over again. So you get it. Do please. Okay.
I don't know. I think it's just a random side note. This bonus. You didn't even pay for this.
If you think about this in the context of like Adam and Eve, think about an Adam, right?
Like if Adam were in the garden and he took a time out and he were like, I'm going to do a little quadrant work right here.
Eve's over there, me entering around that tree. And she's like, got an apple. She's kind of turning it in her hand, looking at it.
She's got that look on her face. And he's going, man, we shouldn't do this. Thoughts. We shouldn't do this. God said, don't it? This isn't good.
I don't like where this is going. All right. And emotionally, there's anxiety. His pits are sweating, his eyes twitching.
He's like stuttering. Hey, babe. Hold up. Do you maybe? Hey, no. Come on. Think about. Did you?
Bit. All right. Physically, all that stuff's going spiritually. Like something in his soul is going, ah, don't do it.
All right. What if, just, this is bonus, like I said. All right. This is just kind of the crazy stuff that goes on in my head.
What if, what if Adam were able to pause for a minute and do take stock of what's going on in and then go, what's the next right thing?
What is God calling me to? All right. And at that point, he like tackles her and knocks the apple out of her hand and is like, no, we're not doing it.
All right. I don't know.
